also one of the worst terrorist
attacks on the American people
in recent times as well.
>> Joining me now is CNN
military analyst general Wesley
Clark.
So general, first I'm gonna
talk to you about what's going
on at the border, but before
that, can you just talk about
the significance of these two
very important U.S. Naval
carriers, going into the region,
and what is it's meant to do?
>> Those two aaft carriers
and the flotilla that goes with
him, you have about 20 ships,
you have a tremendous capacity
for not only aircraft on each
acre craft carrier, but the
escorts, and what they can do
in the way of tomahawk missiles,
and other things.
And so, there is a warning,
they're there is a deterrent to
Iran.
Keep your hands off, stay out
of it, or else.
Because the general thinking is
that, Hezbollah is not going to
go --
without Iran saying go ahead.
This ties Iran in directly into
the assault.
On the other hand, you can be
sure that Iran is watching
this.
They're calculating, they're
wondering whether the Israelis
are going to get so bogged down
in gaza, be so --
tarnished in world opinion,
that they could justify
releasing Hezbollah, and go for
the finish of Israel.
There is going to be that kind
of thinking going on, in
Tehran.
Those two aircraft carriers are
really important to stop that
kind of thought.
>> You want --
it is a deterrence.
We have definitely heard some
this morning, in interviews,
not ruling out the notion of
U.S. Troops being involved.
I think it's important to put
that into context.
Certainly does not seem as
though the U.S. Is going to get
involved in a very active way
with U.S. Troops in this
conflicts.
The discuss it is --
about how to get American
hostages out.
>> That's right, and I'm sure
we've got a joint plan going on
with Israelis.
If we could locate the hostages,
if it's possible to pull off an
extraction mission, sure we
would work with the Israelis to
do that.
There's also the possibility of
those U.S. Forces in the north
actually having to engage,
should Hezbollah decide to
launch its hundred 50,000
rockets against Israel.
And Iran should be under no
illusions.
Those ships are not just there
for show, those ships are ready
to go and on the presidential
order they could go.
As president Biden said, we're
100 percent committed to Israel
were not going to allow the
destruction of Israel.
>> I really want to get your
perspective on what is
happening inside gaza.
And Thea that, according to
the white house, hamas, they're
the ones who stopped Americans
from getting into Egypt, via
the rafah border crossing.
We're talking about
Palestinians, we're talking in
this case about Americans who
are inside gaza.
These are civilians.
What does it tell you, first of
all, that crossing was closed,
and what is your sense of why
this really happened.
We're showing our viewers a map
of the area we're talking
about.
Now >> Dana, we look at this a
as a two phase --
show how powerful you are, and
then fall back into gaza, and
use civilian population as a
shield, and then attack Israel
on the stage of world opinion,
and cause Israel to look like
an evil force that is anti
humanitarian.
What's happening right now is
that hamas is losing the second
phase already, before the
fighting is even started,
violence of people there are
getting out of the way.
Hamas may be trying to keep
them in position, but hamas is
failing to do that, they are
evacuating the northern area.
Despite hamas roadblocks --
on a main evacuation route,
that looks like something
engineered by hamas to
intimidate its own people.
Their view is that those people,
they're just human shields.
They're collateral, they don't
care about those people, what
they're interested in is the
destruction of Israel, and so
the poor people in gaza,,
they're not all hamas.
There are innocent people
there.
They need to be protected too.
And the United States --
hamas needs to be eliminated,
and that's what the Israeli
objective is going to be
eventually.
In this phase, it's already
underway, hamas is losing
control of the population, and
that's a huge loss for hamas.
>> Just to underscore, we're at
a time, but just to underscore
what you said, which is that
hamas with, just for speed the
leadership of gaza, is trying
to prevent innocent civilians
from getting out of harm's way.
And getting out of a war zone,
because I think it helps them,
in the propaganda war.
It's really important to talk